Development Log
Project: Encryption and Logger System
Developer: Smon Emahazien
Date Started: 03/04/2025
Date Completed: 03/24/2025


 Project Planning and Setup (March 4 , 2025)


Read the project description,Decided to split the project into three main components: Logger, Encryption, and Driver.
Created separate Python files for each program: logger.py, encryption.py, and driver.py.
Set up the project directory.


 Implementing the Logger Program (March 4-10, 2025)
 Build the Logger program to write log entries.

I created the message function to write the timestamp, action and message.
Implemented a main loop in logger so that we can keep on reading input until we recive quir

Implemented the main loop in the Logger to keep reading input from stdin until "QUIT" is received.



Encryption Program Development (March 10-20, 2025)
Implement the encryption and decryption functions.



Researched the Vigenère cipher,Built the basic structure so that we can do these comands: PASS, ENCRYPT, DECRYPT, and QUIT.

The program now encrypts and decrypts strings using the passkey.

I tested the program with different commands to ensure they have the correct outputs



Build the Driver program and connect it to both Logger and Encryption programs.

 Driver Program Setup and Process Communication (March 20-22, 2025)
 created the Driver program to control both Logger and Encryption programs .


Created the Driver program and set it up to launch the Logger and Encryption program.
Added a menu like system that will acccept specefic commands: password, encrypt, decrypt, history, quit




 Finalizing the Driver and Testing (March 23, 2025)
 Complete the Driver program .


Added a history tracker that keeps track of previously entered strings.
I also added a error checking system that ensures that the user does not input invalild inputs.

I also tested the interactions between the Driver, Logger, and Encryption programs.

 Documentation and Code Review (March 24, 2025)
Created the documentation for the project and review the code for improvements.



Wrote the README file, explained how the project works and how to run the program

cleaned up the code and ensured that it is commented.

